# ResNet18 Binary Image Classification – Artifact Detection

This project aims to detect generated images with visual artifacts (extra fingers, text, distortion) using a pre-trained ResNet18 model based on ImageNet.

## Description

The model performs **binary image classification**:
- **0** – normal images without noticeable defects.
- **1** – images with artifacts (defined as "incorrect").
- 
The model achieved:
- **Accuracy:** ~0.955
- **Macro F1-score:** ~0.95


## Technologies used

- Python, PyTorch
- ResNet18 (з ImageNet)
- Torchvision, Matplotlib, Sklearn
- Google Colab


## How to run
Clone this repo:
```bash git clone https://github.com/твоє_ім’я/resnet-artifact-classifier.git```



## Conclusion

As a result of the work, an effective system was created for automatic classification of images generated by neural networks for the presence of artifacts. The use of the ResNet18 model with pre-trained weights allowed to achieve high accuracy (over 95%) on the test set, as well as to ensure a good balance of Precision/Recall metrics, especially for the class with artifacts.

The model showed excellent ability to detect typical artifacts, such as:

incorrect display of body parts (hands, fingers, eyes),
the presence of text,
facial deformations,
foreign elements that are not inherent in real images.

This allows using this system as part of a larger quality control platform for validation of generated images, for example, before publication or in filtering datasets.

In the future, it is advisable to:

expand the dataset, in particular with examples of more complex/hidden artifacts,
implement interactive visualization of feature maps for a deeper understanding of how the model makes decisions,
conduct comparisons with other architectures (e.g., EfficientNet, ViT),
integrate the model into a web interface for use by end users.
Overall, the project demonstrated the successful application of deep learning to the artifact classification task and can be easily scaled to new image types or filtering tasks.
